Instructions for Setting Up and Using XCaliber Mark II

These instructions assume you have built and installed XCaliber Mark
II, as described in the INSTALL file which came with this
distribution.  Here, I describe how to start up the server, configure
its runtime options, and use the conference.

Warning:  This information may not be up to date.
-------

Starting Up the Server

The most basic way to start up the server is simply to invoke it from
the command line:

	% xcal &

However, there are several command-line options you may wish to take
advantage of:

-c	disable conference logging (default on)

	By default, all connects, disconnects, startups, etc. are
	logged into a textfile called 'conlog' in the XCaliber
	directory (/usr/local/lib/xcal, by default).  If you don't
	want this to happen, use the '-c' option when you start
	up the server.

	This says that the default is 'on', but actually, that
	assumes you haven't tweaked it in default.h

-d dur	set conference duration in minutes (default 45)

	Conferences have a limited lifetime.  By default, this is
	forty-five minutes.  You can change the length of a con
	by specifying a different value on the command line using
	the '-d' option.

-e env	set language environment (default 'en_us')

	By default, XCaliber starts up using U.S. English messages.
	If you want it to start up with something different, specify
	it using the '-e' option.  To specify the language encoded
	in the file 'lang.lx', you would use 'lang' as the language
	name, for example.

-l	loop, restarting conference after it terminates

	By default, the server runs one conference of the specified
	length, and then terminates.  If the '-l' option is used,
	the server starts up a new conference after the previous one
	closes down, so that it's always ready to go again.  This is
	probably what you want if you plan to run it all the time.

-p port start conference at given port (default 2456)

	Set the TCP port at which the server will listen for new
	connexions to the conference.

-t size	set transfer block size in bytes (default 1024)

	The server queues up large writes to each connexion and does
	them in blocks so that other users do not experience a lot of
	lag when someone is getting a long message.  By default, this
	block size is 1K; you can change it with this option.

-w warn	warn timeout in seconds (default 120)

	The server issues a warning to all connected users a little
	while before the conference is due to terminate.  This option
	specifies how long before termination the first warning should
	be given (a warning is issued every 60 seconds after the first
	warning, until the con terminates).

-v	display version information and exit

-h	display a summary of command-line options and exit


Configuring Server Options

The server pays attention to several environment variables when it
starts up.  In particular, these are:

XCALLANGDIR	Specifies the pathname of the directory to look for
		language files in.  Default: /usr/local/lib/xcal/lang

XCALLOGDIR	Specifies the pathname of the directory to write the
		conlog file in.  This is the file that gets a log of
		all connects, disconnects, etc.  By default, this
		directory is /usr/local/lib/xcal

XCALPRIVDIR	Specifies the pathname of the directory containing
		the privilege database.  See below for an explanation
		of privileges.  Default: /usr/local/lib/xcal

XCALHELPDIR	Specifies the pathname of the directory containing
		the help database.  Default: /usr/local/lib/xcal/help

If these are not set, they default to the values that were compiled in
from the file default.h when you built the program (see INSTALL for
details).


Overview of How it All Works

When the server starts up, it opens up a listener socket on the given
port, and awaits a new connexion.  The first user to connect to this
port becomes the "master" of the conference.

The conference "master" is a specially privileged user, who has the
ability to set conference parameters, establish and regulate
sub-conferences, and forcibly disconnect unruly users.

[this needs to be finished]

